- [[topic]]
	- What is a topic?
		- a more general account of what your are interested in
		- a vague formulation of your project
		- the area and discipline you are working in
		- *example*: The language of teenagers
	- What is a good topic?
		- is not too general but also not too specific
		- should have further relevance for linguistics
		- includes new aspects based on state of the art in the relevant theories
		- interesting and doable
		- is based on previous knowledge and/or observations
		- allows for a number of research questions
- [[title]]
	- is the business card of your paper/thesis
	- must be informative and explicit
	- must have a reasonable link to the content
	- must not raise expectations that are not met in the paper
	- **example**: **Teenage talk - a sociolinguistic study of the forms and functions of youth language*
- Research questions (RQ)
  id:: 62862ae8-dcf3-49f6-b9b4-0a7fe71fdcce
	- Determine your aim(s)
	  
	    Your topic and a preliminary title in mind you work out a set of research questions and/or hypotheses suitable to be applied to empirical data (operationalisation) or to challenge theoretical positions.
	- The importance of RQ
		- RQ is important for choosing & evaluating empirical data and theoretical concepts & literature 
		  
		    "This is because a piece of empirical research is normally designed to address one or more research questions - the answers to which should constitute a 'contribution to knowledge'." ([[Sunderland2010ResearchQuestions]]: 10)
		- start out with RQ as a guideline for your project: it can be a rather broadly formulated RQ, but also a number of relatively small and precise RQs
		- while progressing, refine your RQs, make them more precise or more general or add new ones
		- don't miss the point where your RQs have to be fixed
	- How to find RQs
		- from [[references]]
			- by coming across a suggestion for an unanswered question
			- by replicating someone else's
			- by identifying a gap, i.e. something that has not yet been asked
		- from a pre-existing ((62862ae8-8f4b-481e-8b27-f38553eb1f35))
		- from observation
		- from own empirical findings within the study
	- Types of RQs ([[Sunderland2010ResearchQuestions]]: 13ff.)
		- RQ is interrogative, addresses a part of the topic; is more exploratory and broader than a hypothesis
		- according to its *function* an RQ can be
			- descriptive
			- explanatory
			              id:: 62862ae8-bc99-4882-ae80-851d5c10cc35
			- evaluative
			- causal-comparative
			- correlational
		- according to its *relation* to the project an RQ can be
			- primary vs. secondary
			- main vs. contributory
			- overarching vs. subordinate
			- empirical vs. methodological vs. theoretical
			- researcher-generated vs. participant-generated
			- empirical vs. speculative
			  heading:: true
			  id:: 62862ae8-6376-4d82-b9e5-37b518baf1af
			  ** Formulating RQs
			  *** be careful with the *wording*: there must be exact definitions for every content word; it has to be understandable by others
			  *** the *number* of RQs is not restricted, start with many and narrow down, but they must be manageable - If in doubt, leave out!
			  *** the *sequence* of your RQs may be important
			  ** ((62862ae8-6376-4d82-b9e5-37b518baf1af))
			  * Hypotheses
			  heading:: true
			  id:: 62862ae8-6376-4d82-b9e5-37b518baf1af
			  ** [[definition]]: "Hypothesen sind also Antworten auf die Fragen, die implizit mit dem gewählten Thema aufgeworfen werden. Um als wissenschaftliche Hypothesen zu taugen, müssen sie sich als Ergebnisse ausweisen, die durch ein wissenschaftliches Untersuchungsverfahren gewonnen wurden" (Esselborn-Krumbiegel 2002:101)
			  ** H is a prerequisite for drawing a conclusion; the assumed answer to a question; generally valid claim; assumption about real phenomena; a prediction of what you will find
			  ** H belongs more to the natural sciences, used in experimental studies and more often in quantitative research
			  ** special case is a negative form of H: the Null Hypothesis, stating that the differences observed have occurred only because of chance, i. e. there is no correlation between two [[variable]]. Research then aims to reject (or accept) the Null Hypothesis.
			  ** H is often more precise than an RQ
			  ** H is a statement to be confirmed or refuted
			  ** H is a statement about the potential relation between at least two variables
			  ** H must be falsifiable (i.e. must not be a tautology)
			  ** can be operationalised ([[operationalisation]])
			  * Important criteria for good ((62862ae8-dcf3-49f6-b9b4-0a7fe71fdcce))
			  ** [[variable]]: "feature of a particular case, and a particular case can take one of a set of possible features" ([[Rasinger2010QuantitativeMethods]]: 53)
			  *** *Example*: [[gender]]: variable with two (or more) values, each case (in a class of 20 pupils=cases) can take only one of the possible values.
			  *** independent vs. dependent [[variable]]
			  ** [[operationalisation]]: translating properties of the studied phenomenon into numerical values, especially in [[quantitative methods][quantitative studies]]
			  ** [[reliability]]: study has to be replicable, results have to be consistent, i.e. investigating the same aspects under identical/similar conditions returns the same results
			  ** [[validity]]: method has to be appropriate, i.e. the chosen method has to actually measure what it is supposed to measure.
			  *** *internal* validity: results of an experiment not skewed by non-intended factors
			  *** *external* validity: question of generalisation of the results to larger populations