- Course materials
  id:: 643f8bfc-4718-417d-a94f-c5d69dd55657
  collapsed:: true
	- I use [[logseq]] for creating and sharing the course materials.
	- The materials are available here: https://wuqui.github.io/methling231/.
- Schedule
  id:: 643f2336-673c-4882-afe2-ede089a86ea0
	- 01 | 19.04.
		- [organisation and introduction]([[01 - Organisation and introduction]])
	- 01 | 26.04.
		- [research questions and hypotheses]([[03 - Research questions and hypotheses]])
	- 01 | 03.05.
		- [[research questions and hypotheses]]
	- 01 | 10.05.
		- [[note-taking]]
	- 01 | 17.05.
		- [[04 - Reference management]]
	- 01 | 24.05.
		- reading
	- 01 | 31.05.
		- self-management
	- 01 | 07.06.
		- linguistic methods
	- 01 | 14.06.
		- linguistic methods
	- 01 | 21.06.
		- linguistic methods
	-
	- 01 | 28.06.
		- data analysis
	- 01 | 05.07.
		- data analysis
	- 01 | 12.07.
		- writing
	- 01 | 19.07.
		- presenting
- Course description
  id:: 643f2336-49a4-4364-b906-c9632e169d1a
  collapsed:: true
	- This course will guide you through the entire process of designing a research project in linguistics, from identifying a [[topic]] to presenting a research project proposal in written form (e.g. for a term paper, your BA thesis or Zulassungsarbeit).
	- You will be offered practical advice on:
	  collapsed:: true
		- planning and organising your work
		- identifying and narrowing a [[topic]]
		- developing and refining [[research questions and hypotheses]]
		- finding and managing background information and [[references]]
		- effective and sustainable [[note-taking]]
		- referencing [literature]([[references]]) and avoiding plagiarism
		- collecting and analysing [[data]] using various [[methods]] (e.g. [[corpus linguistics]], [questionnaires]([[questionnaire]]))
		- reporting results and academic [[writing]]
	- For every topic, I will provide basic material and questions for discussion.
	- We will work on and discuss your project ideas, and you will have the chance to get constructive feedback on your projects.
	- We will have weekly sessions in person during regular course time.
- Course concept
  id:: 643f2336-e267-4976-9017-68fc5b30e5b5
  collapsed:: true
	- open, workshop-like environment
	- input from me on selected topics
	- individual and group work on your projects
- Requirements
  collapsed:: true
	- active attendance
	- writing a research proposal ([[Thesenpapier]])
- Assessment
  collapsed:: true
	- [[Modulprüfung]]
	- [[Thesenpapier]]
- [[course bibliography]]
